feat: New section for Sentry Android Gradle Plugin (#4559)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/platforms/android/common/gradle.mdx

---
title: Gradle
sidebar_order: 100
description: "Learn about using the Sentry Android Gradle Plugin."

> redirect_from:

Author: ```suggestion
```

---
title: Gradle
sidebar_order: 100
description: "Learn about using the Sentry Android Gradle Plugin."
redirect_from:

>   - /platforms/android/proguard/#gradle-configuration

Reviewer: Unfortunately you can't redirect from a heading
```suggestion
```

Author: 😿 @marandaneto should we redirect from `/platforms/android/proguard`? I don't think so, as the page still exists, but just checking. Also PTAL at the PR ;)

Reviewer 2: If the page still exists, lets just remove the redirect and introduce the new page

> redirect_from:
>   - /platforms/android/proguard/#gradle-configuration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

---

> The [Sentry Android Gradle Plugin](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-android-gradle-plugin) is an addition to the main Android and Hybrid SDKs and offers

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [Sentry Android Gradle Plugin](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-android-gradle-plugin) is an addition to the main Android and Hybrid SDKs (like React Native and Flutter) and offers
```

> The [Sentry Android Gradle Plugin](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-android-gradle-plugin) comes as an addition to the main Android and Hybrid SDKs and offers
> seamless integration with the Gradle build system. It supports uploading ProGuard/R8 mappings, uploading Native debug symbols and sources as well as tracing
> auto-instrumentation through bytecode manipulation.

Reviewer: I know this probably sounds more awkward, but this should be a noun phrase instead of a verb phrase. Some ugly English grammar :-p
```suggestion
The [Sentry Android Gradle Plugin](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-android-gradle-plugin) is an addition to the main Android and Hybrid SDKs and offers
seamless integration with the Gradle build system. It supports the upload of ProGuard/R8 mappings and of Native debug symbols and sources, as well as
auto-instrumentation tracing through bytecode manipulation.
```

      features.set(setOf(InstrumentationFeature.DATABASE, InstrumentationFeature.FILE_IO))
    }
}
```

Now when you build your app, the plugin will upload the ProGuard/R8 mappings, source bundle, and native symbols as you configured them to Sentry.

### Variant Filtering

You can specify which variant/flavor/build-type should be ignored by Sentry in your `app/build.gradle` file:

```groovy
sentry {
    // List the build types that should be ignored (e.g. "release").
    ignoredBuildTypes = ["release"]

    // List the build flavors that should be ignored (e.g. "production").
    ignoredFlavors = ["production"]

    // List the build variant that should be ignored (e.g. "productionRelease").
    ignoredVariants = ["productionRelease"]
}
```

```kotlin
sentry {
    // List the build types that should be ignored (e.g. "release").
    ignoredBuildTypes.set(setOf("release"))

    // List the build flavors that should be ignored (e.g. "production").
    ignoredFlavors.set(setOf("production"))

    // List the build variant that should be ignored (e.g. "productionRelease").
    ignoredVariants.set(setOf("productionRelease"))
}
```

> ## ProGuard/R8

Reviewer 2: The Proguard specific info could go into an `include` and we could use it here, and also on the ProGuard page to make sure content doesn't go out of sync

Author: mm, but on the proguard page we just redirect to either Gradle integration or sentry-cli, there's no specifics about how it works, so maybe it's fine like that?

> The plugin will automatically generate appropriate ProGuard mapping files and upload them when you run `gradle assemble{BuildVariant}`. For example, `assembleRelease` — Release is the default, but the plugin works for others if you have enabled ProGuard/R8. The credentials for the upload step are loaded via environment variables or from a `sentry.properties` file in your project root.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The plugin will automatically generate appropriate ProGuard mapping files and upload them when you run `gradle assemble{BuildVariant}`. For example, `assembleRelease` — Release is the default, but the plugin works for others if you have enabled ProGuard/R8. The credentials for the upload step are loaded through environment variables or from a `sentry.properties` file in your project root.
```

> For more information, see the [full sentry-cli documentation](/product/cli/configuration/#configuration-values).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn more in the [full sentry-cli documentation](/product/cli/configuration/#configuration-values).
```

> At the very minimum you will need something similar to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the very minimum, you will need something similar to:
```

```bash
defaults.project=your-project
defaults.org=your-org
auth.token=YOUR_AUTH_TOKEN
```
<Note>

> You can find your authentication token [on the Sentry API page](https://sentry.io/api/). For more information about the available configuration options, see the [full sentry-cli documentation](/product/cli/configuration/#configuration-values).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find your authentication token [on the Sentry API page](https://sentry.io/api/). For more information about the available configuration options, check out the [full sentry-cli documentation](/product/cli/configuration/#configuration-values).
```

</Note>

## Native Debug Symbols and Sources

The plugin will automatically discover and upload Native debug symbols and sources when you run `gradle assemble{BuildVariant}`. The `{BuildVariant}` must be a non-debuggable build type, for example `Release`. The credentials for the upload step are loaded via environment variables or from a `sentry.properties` file in your project root.

> For more information, see the [full sentry-cli documentation](/product/cli/configuration/#configuration-values).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn more in the [full sentry-cli documentation](/product/cli/configuration/#configuration-values).
```

> At the very minimum you will need something similar to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the very minimum, you will need something similar to:
```

```bash
defaults.project=your-project
defaults.org=your-org
auth.token=YOUR_AUTH_TOKEN
```
<Note>

> You can find your authentication token [on the Sentry API page](https://sentry.io/api/). For more information about the available configuration options, see the [full sentry-cli documentation](/product/cli/configuration/#configuration-values).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find your authentication token [on the Sentry API page](https://sentry.io/api/). For more information about the available configuration options, check out the [full sentry-cli documentation](/product/cli/configuration/#configuration-values).
```

</Note>

## Tracing Auto-instrumentation

> The plugin utilizes [bytecode manipulation](https://www.infoq.com/articles/Living-Matrix-Bytecode-Manipulation/) framework to inject a code snippet 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The plugin uses the [bytecode manipulation](https://www.infoq.com/articles/Living-Matrix-Bytecode-Manipulation/) framework to inject a code snippet 
```

that starts and finishes a [span](/product/sentry-basics/tracing/event-detail/#span-view) for common operations that can cause performance bottlenecks.

> This way potentially heavy operations are automatically measured without the need to manually instrument them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This way potentially heavy operations are automatically measured without the need to manually instrument them.

<Note>

For this data to be captured, you must enable performance monitoring.

</Note>
```

> The plugin supports the following features for the auto-instrumentation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The plugin supports the following features for auto-instrumentation:
```

---
title: Gradle
sidebar_order: 100
description: "Learn about using the Sentry Android Gradle Plugin."
redirect_from:
  - /platforms/android/proguard/#gradle-configuration
---

> The [Sentry Android Gradle Plugin](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-android-gradle-plugin) comes as an addition to the main Android and Hybrid SDKs and offers

Author: @imatwawana could you please check this paragraph?

    // If disabled the plugin will run a dry-run and just generate a UUID.
    // The mapping file has to be uploaded manually via sentry-cli in this case.
    // Default is enabled.
    autoUploadProguardMapping = true

    // Disables or enables the automatic configuration of Native Symbols
    // for Sentry. This executes sentry-cli automatically so
    // you don't need to do it manually.
    // Default is disabled.
    uploadNativeSymbols = false

    // Does or doesn't include the source code of native code for Sentry.
    // This executes sentry-cli with the --include-sources param. automatically so
    // you don't need to do it manually.
    // Default is disabled.
    includeNativeSources = false

    // Enable or disable the tracing instrumentation.
    // Does auto instrumentation for specified features through bytecode manipulation.
    // Default is enabled.
    // Only available v3.0.0 and above.
    tracingInstrumentation {
      enabled = true

      // Specifies a set of instrumentation features that are eligible for bytecode manipulation.
      // Defaults to all available values of InstrumentationFeature enum class.

>       // See [Tracing Auto-instrumentation section](/platforms/android/gradle/#tracing-auto-instrumentation)

Author: ```suggestion
```

    // If disabled the plugin will run a dry-run and just generate a UUID.
    // The mapping file has to be uploaded manually via sentry-cli in this case.
    // Default is enabled.
    autoUploadProguardMapping.set(true)

    // Disables or enables the automatic configuration of Native Symbols
    // for Sentry. This executes sentry-cli automatically so
    // you don't need to do it manually.
    // Default is disabled.
    uploadNativeSymbols.set(false)

    // Does or doesn't include the source code of native code for Sentry.
    // This executes sentry-cli with the --include-sources param. automatically so
    // you don't need to do it manually.
    // Default is disabled.
    includeNativeSources.set(false)

    // Enable or disable the tracing instrumentation.
    // Does auto instrumentation for specified features through bytecode manipulation.
    // Default is enabled.
    // Only available v3.0.0 and above.
    tracingInstrumentation {
      enabled.set(true)
      
      // Specifies a set of instrumentation features that are eligible for bytecode manipulation.
      // Defaults to all available values of InstrumentationFeature enum class.

>       // See [Tracing Auto-instrumentation section](/platforms/android/gradle/#tracing-auto-instrumentation)

Author: ```suggestion
```

auth.token=YOUR_AUTH_TOKEN
```
<Note>

You can find your authentication token [on the Sentry API page](https://sentry.io/api/). For more information about the available configuration options, see the [full sentry-cli documentation](/product/cli/configuration/#configuration-values).

</Note>

## Native Debug Symbols and Sources

The plugin will automatically discover and upload Native debug symbols and sources when you run `gradle assemble{BuildVariant}`. The `{BuildVariant}` must be a non-debuggable build type, for example `Release`. The credentials for the upload step are loaded via environment variables or from a `sentry.properties` file in your project root.

For more information, see the [full sentry-cli documentation](/product/cli/configuration/#configuration-values).

At the very minimum you will need something similar to:

```bash
defaults.project=your-project
defaults.org=your-org
auth.token=YOUR_AUTH_TOKEN
```
<Note>

You can find your authentication token [on the Sentry API page](https://sentry.io/api/). For more information about the available configuration options, see the [full sentry-cli documentation](/product/cli/configuration/#configuration-values).

</Note>

> ## Tracing Auto-instrumentation

Author: @imatwawana and also this one especially, the rest was basically taken as-is, but of course feel free to change that as well :)
